What is SQL?

SQL (Structured Query Language) is a standard interactive and programming language for getting information from and updating a database. 
Although SQL is both an ANSI and an ISO standard, many database products support SQL with proprietary extensions to the 
standard language. Queries take the form of a command language that lets you select, insert, update, find out the location 
of data, and so forth. There is also a programming interface. 

What is DML? 

A data manipulation language (DML) is a family of computer languages including commands permitting users to manipulate 
data in a database. This manipulation involves inserting data into database tables, retrieving existing data, 
deleting data from existing tables and modifying existing data. DML is mostly incorporated in SQL databases.

Recite the most important SQL commands.

1. Inserting records in a table
INSERT INTO Students (id, name, age) VALUES (‘1’, ‘alan’, 28);
2. Viewing all records from a table.
SELECT * FROM Students;
3. Viewing only selected records from a table
SELECT COUNT(1) FROM Students;
SELECT id , name , MAX(age) FROM Students;
4. Deleting records from a table
DELETE FROM Students WHERE name = ‘alan’;
5. Changing data in existing records in a table
UPDATE Students SET age = 22 WHERE name = ‘amy’;
6. Viewing records from a table without knowing exact details
SELECT * FROM Students WHERE name LIKE ‘d%n’;
7. Using more than one condition in WHERE clause to retrieve records
SELECT * FROM Students WHERE name = ‘dan’ AND age = 24;
8. Viewing only selected columns from a table
SELECT name , age FROM Students;

What is Transact-SQL (T-SQL)?

T-SQL (Transact-SQL) is a set of programming extensions from Sybase and Microsoft that add several features to the 
Structured Query Language (SQL) including transaction control, exception and error handling, row processing, 
and declared variables. T-SQL expands on the SQL standard to include procedural programming, local variables, 
various support functions for string processing, date processing, mathematics, etc. and changes to the DELETE 
and UPDATE statements.

